japanese
kan=card
ban=signal  # Color red signals new product needed

Kanban started life as a scheduling system for assembly lines in the automobile industry.
high level of production at Toyota by managing the workflow
Just In-Time Manufacturing: delivery in small batches, don't stock 
Toyota, island, no enough space to store thousands of cars
pull system vs push system, signal of 100 cars order=manufacture new batch


David Anderson=Using kanban in software dev
David J. Anderson introduced the idea of using the kanban concept for software development.
Focused on breaking work in small batches, increase the flow going to the system

Definition of Done:the final exit criteria, a collaborative process

to-do items also known as the backlog in various agile frameworks
must deliver business value directly or indirectly				      - defects
																      - task switching
Lean Management - waste -------------------Activity add value or not? - partially done work
				- work in small batches							      - extra features
				- WIP limits									      - relearning
				- feedback Loops								      - handoffs  # Handoffs occur when 
																					work is passed from one person to another person
				- visualization									      - delays

KANBAN PROPERTIES (Practices) Adapted from lean principles, 5 KEY STEPS to implement
1.Visualize Workflow
	Kanban Board, high level view of team progress
	Stickies: Color, Size have different meanings, Priority, Number of person working on it, Type of work
	Yellow=feature, user story format, hard to create bcz not actionable, says what needs to be done
	most pure Kanban board: to do, in progress, done
	Many prefer to add only one other step in between: in progress. Others prefer to break the workflow down into stages such as: plan, design, draft, build, test, deploy, with to-do and done as bookends.
	Value Stream Mapping 
	ToDo Step1 .... Done
	Input Analysis Develop Test Release
	Buffer columns, to-do and done
	CEO see what’s really going on in the organisation looking to the board without quizzing middle management
	put board in a central location 
2.Limit WIP
	there’s an agreed limit to the total number of tasks in progress at any point in time
	to ensure optimum efficiency
	Max number of card in a column; no more than three tasks per person;  or twice the number of team members as a maximum group threshold
	Bridge analogy
	Demand analysis: Trucks vs motorcycles, fourty yellow card, ten green card etc.
	Common sense is enough to get started and then experience, will help fine tune to pin down the optimal WiP limit.
	Achieving business value doesn’t happen until the job is finished.
3.Manage flow
	The aim is to achieve a fast, smooth movement from to-do to done.
	maximum business value in the shortest time
	The concept: all work starts life as to-do and ends up as done.
	It’s all about building an effective way of getting from left to right
4.Make policies explicit
	common understanding
	EX: Definition of Done
5.Improve collaboratively
	spotlight is on the workflow, ideas start to develop about how it can be improved
6.Feedback Loops
	what your customers and the end-users think


differences with Kanban
1.All work is of a similar size: 
Splitting large pieces of work down into smaller, similar sized packages has been proven to improve workflow and results in more predictive end-toend cycle times. 
Penny Game: https://www.lynda.com/Project-Management-tutorials/Penny-Game/761929/5011075-4.html
2.The backlog is refined more regularly: 
The Kanban backlog tends to be exceptionally dynamic especially
in a support type environment.
3.Jobs are pulled not pushed:
what’s next policy


Team Capacity

Waste: process dont add value to customer

Optimal queue size

Cumulative Flow Diagram

Story Points: Fibonacci Numbers or T-shirt sizing

there’s minimal disruption to the status quo.
Kanban is a great option to get a foot in the door. It’s easy to understand and simple to launch.
Not good for serious organizational change

There are three guiding principles that sum transformation to kanban:
1 Start with what you do now.
2 Agree to pursue incremental, evolutionary change.
3 Respect the current process, roles, responsibilities and titles.

Lead Time: 
The period between creating a task in your workflow and its final departure from the kanban board. 
Customer comes to shop to goes out having meal.

recap
● The Kanban board is at the heart of the operation.
● Get started by visualising the as-is workflow.
● Limit the work-in-progress for maximum efficiency.
● Don’t let the simplicity fool you; it’s a deceptively powerful tool.
● Kanban can be a final destination… or a stepping stone for grander ambitions.

Full Course:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GnG6RPSRLCs&feature=emb_logo