scrum = rugby term, a method of restarting play in rugby 
fail fast learn fast
deliver quickly
highest value delivered first

about combining Lean and agile principles to help teams to deliver products.

po: the single, final decision maker for what the project is all about and what the end product delivers
	- what needs to be done, (product vision, choose features, writes User Stories)
	- reviews the team's work 
	- ensures that the highest value is being delivered? 
	- orders the work and ensures that Scrum Team members clearly understand the details of the requests
	- product owner is like a politician

sm: LEADER, how the team does the work, 
	- help the Scrum Team resolve day-to-day issues 
	- counterbalance the ongoing requirements changes
	- dedicated role that protects the team, 
	- helps them improve their internal team processes.
	- spokeperson

ideal size of team 7 people +-2
dedicated = higher focus, better efficiency, fast delivery

T shaped skills: Broad knowledge(DB analyst) - Deep knowledge(Python developer)

time, cost, scope # 3 project constraints, cant be changed after project starts

Team norms: commitments made on; 
	- how the team will work together, 
	- resolve disagreements, 
	- reach design consensus. 
	EX: aggree or disagree, move forward with the decision the team made 

CEREMONIES
---
Sprint Planning --- Everyone --- Goal:Everyone fully understand the story and AC, definition of Done, Q/A session, write tasks, story points estimation

Grooming Meeting --- Everyone --- review the backlog, rewriting, splitting, deleting --- no specific date, usually in the middle of the sprint

Daily Standup --- Team --- Every day same time max 15 min, SM select time fit to everyone, in front of board, opportunuty to ask for help, collaboration and communication, internal meeting for the team

Retrospective --- Everyone --- close-door session, Focus on the team not the product, how to be more effective, what to improve; find effective solutions to problems and to develop action plans

Sprint Review --- Everyone, Customers, Devs from other teams --- Review the sprint as a whole, receive feedback

Demo --- Team and Stakeholders --- Show the product, feedback from stakeholders, new user stories; trust and relationship building, often as possible (Not every sprint)
---


Minimum Viable Product 	- get fast feedback
						- reduce scope creep (uncontrolled changes or continuous growth in a project’s scope. This can occur when the scope of a project is not properly defined, documented, or controlled)

The Product Increment is the sum of all the product backlog items finished during the sprint. 

		VISION
THEMES			FEATURES
profile-------> Login		
orders 			Save password
delivery		Recent Orders
payment			Favorites


Nice to have features may be postponed to other sprints

User Story: 
Independent --- delivered seperately
Negotiable --- rewrite, cancel, change
Valuable --- meaningful, user value
Estimable --- story points
Small --- complete in one sprint
Testable --- enough info to test

Functional User Story:
As a mobile customer, I want to create a profile, so that future orders are faster to place.

Task: (Create user ID) Write new user ID to DB

Acceptance Criteria

Definition of Done

Sprint Duration: try and learn, begin with 2 weeks; shortest feasible Sprint length possible


			Estimate
Actual 			- 		Relative
Map distance			Comparison, to get a general idea
						Compare user stories each other

Roadmap: Estimate of when the team will complete the stories, living doc, a guide

Release plan

Stabilized Velocity: Team knows how many story points the can finish in a sprint

QUIZ
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Within the Scrum Team, who usually writes the user stories? 
The Product Owner, or PO, is usually responsible for writing the user stories.

What type of estimation do Scrum Teams use to size their stories?
Relative Estimation

When is the vision for your product established?
before any work begins
The vision is the map that will guide you and your team to your destination, and is established by the Product Owner before any work begins.

What do Scrum Teams use to break their work into small, deliverable elements?
User Stories

How is relative estimation used in Scrum?
by comparing user stories to each other
By using relative estimation to compare user stories to each other, you get a rough size of your work.

How should your team establish its cadence(rhythm)?
by the shortest feasible Sprint length possible
Scrum states that your Sprint can be anywhere from one to four weeks in duration, with a preference toward the shorter timescale.

Your roadmap is an estimate of 
when the team will complete their stories
The roadmap is an estimate of when your team will complete their stories, and it should be updated at the end of every Sprint.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Information Radiators, visually represent their project, on the wall:
- Vision
- Team Norms
- Definition of Done
- Roadmap
- Release Plan

BurnDown Chart: measure how well team execute, ideal linear fashion, shows how progressing
trace the progress of a project

Product Backlog can be changed, sprint backlog not once sprint started!

QUIZ
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Why is a backlog refinement event usually held around midpoint of the Sprint?
to evaluate what new items have come up
At least once per Sprint, the whole Scrum Team meets to evaluate the new items that have come up.

What do Scrum Teams use to visually represent their project?
Information radiators

Before verifying the team has the capacity to complete the work, what do you need to know?
hours for all the planned work in the Sprint
As a general guide, remember that in an eight-hour working day, people usually only have about six hours of productive time.

In order for Scrum to work, what does the Daily Scrum meeting rely on?
collaboration and communication
The Daily Scrum includes all three Cs, and is the expected cadence for communication and collaboration.

Which scenario is an example of an information radiator?
posting a burn-down chart on the wall
An information radiator is anything you post on your team sites or walls that helps the team understand the work and its progress.

Why do Scrum Teams hold Retrospectives after every sprint?
to recognize how they can improve their work practices

To help complete stories in Scrum, what event do teams hold?
a Sprint Review
A Sprint Review happens when the team and a PO meet to review the Sprint as a whole, and is usually held in a brief, semi formal session.

Who does the demo build trust between?
the Scrum Team and the stakeholders
The demo is how the Product Owner and the Scrum Team ensure the stakeholders are satisfied with the product being delivered.

This key Scrum role is the only one that can accept a story as done.
Product Owner
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Story Point: provides an easier estimation

velocity is the key metric

Timeboxing